{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\f0\fs22\lang9 NLP and Deep Learning-based Analysis of Building Regulations to support Automated Rule        Checking System\par
\ulnone This paper aims to describe a natural language processing (NLP) and deep learning-based approach for supporting automated rule checking system. Automated rule checking has been developed in various ways and enhanced the efficiency of building design review process\par
This paper proposes a semantic analysis process of regulatory sentences and its utilization for rule checking system. The proposed process is composed of following steps: \par
1) learning semantics of words and sentences, 2) utilization of semantic analysis. For semantic analysis, we use word embedding technique which converts meaning of words in numerical values. By using those values, computers can extract related words and classify the topic of sentences.\ul\par
\ulnone As BIM (Building information modeling) has increasingly used in architecture, engineering,\par
construction (AEC) industry, there are many efforts to develop BIM applications to use rich building information. The role of automated rule checking has been recognized before the use of BIM . As BIM provides computer interpretable building model, many researchers reported that BIM can improve efficiency and accuracy of design assessment.The main\par
components of rule checking consist of\par
 1) rule interpretation and logical structuring\par
 2) building model preparation\par
 3) rule execution, and\par
 4) reporting of the\par
checking results .Compared to other phases, rule interpretation task needs a lot of manual efforts. For automated rule checking, regulatory information must be expressed in an explicit format which computers can execute.\par
Deep learning-based NLP (Natural language processing) enables the computers to learn the semantics of natural language from raw text data. Unlike conventional method, deep learning model extracts training features from raw text and adjusts the weight without human\rquote s intervention. It can alleviate the manual efforts to interpret regulation sentences which is required for automated rule checking. In this regards, the objective of this research is to apply deep learning-based NLP for translating building regulations into a computer-readable format.\par
The scope of this paper is the approach to analyzing the semantic data of Korean building regulation sentences with NLP and deep learning.Steps of the proposed analysis are summarized as follows:\par
1. Learning step: Decompose training sentences in word-level and learn semantic of words and sentences by using NLP and deep learning model.\par
2. Utilization step: Automatically inference the related word and topic of input sentence, utilizing trained learning model.\par
\ul Rule interpretation for automated rule checking\par
\ulnone There have been many efforts to develop automated rule checking. Among the automated rule checking process, rule interpretation is a significant step for automating rule checking. The conventional methodology to translate the building code has been depended on hardcoding or logic rule-based mechanism\ul .\par
\ulnone In GSA project, the courthouse design guide was parameterized and translated into computer-processible format . In case of the Korean building permit research project, they used logic rules and intermediate code to translate Korean building act into the computer-readable format . The conventional rule-based way guarantees the accuracy and reusability.\par
In order to overcome the inefficiency of a manual process, some studies focused on analyzing the semantics of words in regulatory sentences and utilizing NLP. Zhang et al. proposed semantic NLP-based automated compliance checking (SNACC) system [7]. NLP and ontology were applied for extracting the regulatory information from documents. Through the NLP technique and other process, they automated the rule interpretation with semantic information extraction.\par
Uhm et al. translated request for proposal (RFP) for public building in South Korea [9]. Sentences in RFP were broken down into morphemes and categorized into four types (object, method, strictness, and others). Context-free grammar approach was deployed for parsing, and the sentences were translated into Semantic Web Rule Language (SWRL). SWRL is translated again into Python script language for implementation.\par
\ul Natural language processing\par
\ulnone NLP is a research field of artificial intelligence related to interactions between human and computer. The main research of NLP ranges from understanding human language to making proper responses. Due to the ambiguity of natural languages, it is a challenging process to understand the raw text data. Conventional NLP used logic rule-based or statistical methodology for analyzing natural language. In the rule-based method, the text is analyzed by rules defined with linguistic knowledge. However, the semantic meaning of words is hard to capture since it is hard to be defined by pattern or rules.\par
Development of machine learning and deep learning has changed the methodology of NLP and dramatically improved the accuracy of it . Deploying an extensive amount of data and neural net algorithm, the computer can learn semantics in natural language by itself. As machine learning is processed with numerical vectors, words have to be converted into the computer interpretable format. Distributed representation in vector space helps to represent words quantitatively.\par
\ul Learning semantic of words and sentences in building regulations\par
\ulnone This section describes details of the semantic analysis for building regulations.The proposed\par
process is composed of 2 main steps: Learning semantics and Utilization. Learning step consists of 1) preprocessing, 2) semantic analysis of words and\par
sentences and 3) sentence classification.\par
Preprocessing is focused on the grammatical analysis of documents, which is needed for semantic analysis. After the preprocessing, the meaning of words and the topic of sentences are learned by neural net-based word embedding technique. Sentence classification is conducted with deep learning model. In this paper, we used a Python package library KoNLPy  for preprocessing, Gensim  for word embedding and Tensorflow  for establishing classification model.\par
\ul Preprocessing\par
\ulnone In order to proceed an accurate semantic analysis, raw text data have to be processed in a suitable format. In the Korean language, there are postposition particles which stand for grammatical use. They are attached behind to other words like nouns or adjectives. In the raw text, there are also stop words which disrupt semantic analysis (e.g. punctuation). The sentences should be analyzed  grammatically to exclude these unnecessary part. Preprocessing consists of morpheme analysis, Part-ofSpeech (POS) tagging and excluding stop words.\par
POS tagging assigned the label of grammatical function to each word, such as noun, verb, and adjectives. After POS tagging, we excluded Chinese character, punctuations, and numbers.\par
\ul Semantic analysis of words and sentences\par
\ulnone This paper uses word2vec model for the semantic analysis of words. Word2vec model is based on the word embedding technique and it learns the semantics of text from co-occurrence information. Some words which appear with target word in the same context are more related to target word than the others. Based on this concept, Mikolov et al. proposed 2 models to learn the word vector 1) CBOW (continuous Bag-of-Words) model and 2) Skip-gram model . Skip-gram model predicts the current word with a certain range before and after the current word, CBOW model is the opposite. By predicting the current or context words, the computer can learn a co-occurrence data of words. Based on the cooccurrence data, the model assigns the high-dimensional vector values for each word. The numerical vector values enable for the computer to calculate a relevance of words.In this paper, the meaning of words and sentences are presented in 400-dimensional vector space.\par
\ul Sentence classification\par
\ulnone BIM-based automated rule checking focuses on the requirements for buildings which can be\par
expressed quantitatively. Therefore, computer should classify the sentences according to the content and extract the sentences related to buildings from the raw documents. Furthermore, classifying sentences supports identifying what information has to be extracted. The numerical vector values extracted from semantic analysisfacilitate the classification of the sentences. In this paper, we use deep learning model for classification of sentences. First, we tag the label to each sentence according to its contents.\par
In this paper, 6 categories are used for classification labels: 1) Non-AEC, 2) Site, 3) Building structure, 4) Facility, 5) Usage of building and 6) Evacuation & Fireproof.\par
Site category covers the regulations for a building site and roads. Facility category includes MEP facilities and Evacuation & Fireproof category is comprehensive of rules for evacuation plan and noncombustible material. For supervised classification learning, we use deep learning model which composed of 4 fully-connected layers and softmax function for multiclass classification.\par
\ul Utilizing semantic analysis to support automated rule checking system\par
Extract related words from input sentence\par
\ulnone Extracting related words to target word facilitates understanding of the semantics. Based on the numerical values, the computer can calculate the metric distance between words. The distance between words represent the relevance between them, so we can extract words related to the target word. This features could be used for extract semantic relations of words in a regulatory sentence.\par
This module extracts words related to a user-input word, using results of the semantic analysis. The given sentence which is selected by users is decomposed to word-level. After decomposition, the relevance of input word and each word from the given sentence is calculated. Through those steps, the computer can get a list of related words, but it has no idea which words are building object or their property.\par
This paper used the KBimCode database made up of previous work of this research. KBimCode database provides the computer-executable code data and corresponding Korean words. It can be used as a dictionary for translating Korean words into object, property and\par
method data.\par
\ul Inference the topic of input sentence\par
\ulnone Topic inference module is based on a result of classification learning\ul .\ulnone In this paper, we assigned the meaning of the sentence in 400- dimensional space, so the inference module also returns the same shape of value. Then, the inferred vector is given as an input for the classification model. It uses a same graph and weights for predicting the topic.\par
\ul Demonstration\par
\ulnone This section demonstrates the results of implementation. With this application, users can get related words, corresponding KBim data and a predicted topic of the input sentence.\par
The properties of the stair are also easily found in a lexical level search. However, in the lexical level, floors where stairs are installed or related objects are not searched. The demonstration shows that not only the properties of the stair are suggested, also the related object (Floor) and its properties (Underground), from the semantic analysis.\par
The topic inference module suggests predicted topic of an input sentence and also similar sentences based on their content. Suggested similar sentences are extracted based on vector representation, calculating the metric distance of each sentence, same process with the word extraction. In terms of extending the scope of rule checking to RFP or other new regulations, this topic prediction makes it easier to classify the sentence whether it deals with content related to BIM-based rule checking.\par
\ul Conclusion\par
\ulnone This paper proposes a semantic analysis process and its utilization to support rule interpretation. In this paper,Word embedding model is used for learning the semantics of text. Through the training, the semantic of word and sentences are represented in vector values. The results of the semantic analysis are utilized for extracting related words and classifying the topic of sentences. Sentence classification based on deep learning model enables the computer to classify the regulatory sentence according to its content. Extracting related words helps both human and computer to find semantic information from raw text. Demonstrated implementation shows the possibility of utilizing deep learning and NLP to support rule interpretation process. Leveraging this process can decrease the manual efforts and time for interpreting rules.\par
This paper also has some limitations. In preprocessing process, there are some errors in morpheme analysis which are done by NLP framework. This causes critical problems for information extraction task and interpretation. And this paper mainly deals with the semantic relation of words. To entirely automate rule interpretation, it needs to be developed to the logical relation. For the future work, it can make a breakthrough to deploy the syntax parsing for capture the logical relations of words.\par
}
 